
This information will be the content for your Vent Haven website. 

The HEADER, FOOTER, and NAV will be the excact same on EVERY PAGE of the site, only the information inside the main article will be unique 




This information goes in the HEADER:

Vent Haven
A Museum for Dummies!




These should be links in an UNORDERED LIST in the NAV:

Home
Berger Biography
Dummy Spotlight




This information goes in the FOOTER:

Vent Haven Museum
33 West Maple Avenue
Fort Mitchell, KY 41011
(859) 341-0461






The rest of the information will be unique to each main article on the individual pages of the website:




This information is the main article's content for the HOME page:



Vent Haven Museum ("vent" is lingo for "ventriloquist") just off the Interstate 75 Fort Mitchell exit in Northern Kentucky, is the world's only museum of ventriloquial figures and memorabilia. If it's ventriloquism-related, you'll find it at Vent Haven If you're a ventriliquist this may be the cultural center of your world!

The museum houses figures from many ventriloquists, but it began with a collection by William Shakespeare Berger. Berger, who was president of Cambridge Tile Co. in Cincinnati, began collecting ventriloquial figures after purchasing his first on a trip to New York.

Eventually, Berger's collection numbered 500 dummies and puppets. Today, the museum houses 800. A corner devoted to Berger's favorites includes his first purchase, Tommy Baloney, and Skinny Hamilton, Champagne Charlie, Jocko the Monkey and the Hamlet skull, which Berger used in presentations at Beechwood High School.

Visit Vent Haven

The museum does not have regular open hours. Tours of Vent Haven are by appointment only May 1 through September 30. To schedule a tour, call (859) 341-0461 and ask to speak with the curator, Lisa Sweasy. If you like, you can email Lisa and request a tour time. Groups of less than 15 need to request tours at least three days in advance. Larger groups need to allow two weeks.

The admission donation is $5 per person. The tour is guided and lasts between 45 and 90 minutes, depending on the visitors' interest and/or questions.










This information is the main article's content on the BERGER BIOGRAPHY page:


Vent Haven Museum was founded by Cincinnati native William Shakespeare Berger, known to his friends as "W.S." In 1894, when he was 16, W.S. began working in the mailroom of the Cambridge Tile Company in Cincinnati and in 1947, he retired as President of the company.

While on a business trip to New York in 1910, W.S. purchased his first ventriloquist figure, Tommy Baloney, and his fabulous collection was begun. Although originally contained in his home, the collection quickly outgrew its quarters and W.S. renovated his garage and even built a second building to house the figures.

From the late 1940's until 1960, W.S. was the President of the International Brotherhood of Ventriloquists. His leadership helped the organization grow from about 300 members to over 1000. He also published a monthly magazine called The Oracle which kept the ventriloquists abreast of current events in the vent community. Mr. Berger also maintained extensive personal correspondence with ventriloquists around the world.

W.S. outlived his wife, son and grandson and had no other heirs. Fearing his collection would be divided and dispersed, he sought advice from his attorney who helped him set up a charitable foundation for his assets, property and collection.

Vent Haven is the only museum of its kind in the world. It houses over 700 figures, thousands of photographs and playbills, and a library of books, some of which date back to the 1700's. In 1973, a public opening and dedication of a third building was held. Edgar Bergen and Jimmy Nelson were among the performers.

Today, between 900 and 1200 people visit Vent Haven each year. The Museum also hosts an annual international ConVENTion for over 400 ventriloquists and as a result of the foresightedness of W.S. Berger, Vent Haven is a permanent institution, open to the public and devoted to the art of ventriloquism.









This information is the main article's content on the DUMMY SPOTLIGHT page:


Featured Dummies


Red Flannels

Trivia:

Red Flannels was the main figure of television vent Terry Bennett.
Bennett and Red appeared together on the ABC children's television show Jobblewocky Place from 1954 through 1963.
The original Red Flannels was a Turner figure. The figure in Vent Haven Museum was purchased by Bennett from legendary figure maker Frank Marshall early in Bennett's career.
This figure is on display in Building One of the museum.



Jacko

Trivia:

Jacko was the favorite figure of W. S. Berger's wife Josephine.
Berger had Jacko made to be used with the hurdy gurdy in an organ grinder act.
Berger purchased Jacko for $125. He paid for the figure in five monthly installments of $25 each.
This figure is on display in Building One of the museum.

